Methods for Establishing Network Access to Resources Running in your Cloud Environments

Bastion Hosts
-------------

Bastion hosts, or jump hosts, are set up in a public subnet to allow a user to login from either their home or office network, and subsequently access or jump to resources in private networks.

Pros: It is a simple and low cost method for getting onto your cloud VPC.

Cons: It needs additional effort to harden the bastion host. It is not scalable for many users, and may not work if client applications need to be on the user's laptop or desktop. It is a common target for attackers who hope to gain access to the network by exploiting a vulnerability on the bastion host.

Virtual Desktop Solution
------------------------

Similar to a bastion host, except that each user will get their own virtual bastion.

Pros: It allows users to install their desktop application clients in the cloud environment without having connectivity to the VPC from their local laptop
Cons: It costs more than a bastion host. Users will not have direct connectivity to any backend services in the VPC.

Client VPN
----------

A client VPN solution allows a user to connect to the cloud VPC using a secure VPN client to establish an encrypted tunnel.

Pros: Easy to set up. It has the ability to manage many users and roles. It places the user into the VPC so that they may use client applications on their local host to hit the resources deployed in the VPC.
Cons: It has additional cost as compared to a bastion host. Users may need to install proprietary VPN clients on their local machines.


Site-to Site-VPN
----------------
We can connect a local trusted network's firewall with the AWS VPN service to establish VPN tunnel connectivity from the entire local network to the AWS VPC network.

Pros: No need to install any VPN client software on each user's local machine.
Cons: Additional routing and configuration needs to be performed on the local network. It often leads to delays in setup. No role based routing.

Direct Connect Link
-------------------
A dedicated link from a corporate office network or co-location datacenter.

Pros: Dedicated bandwidth. It is ideal for hybrid cloud environments.
Cons: Higher costs and require more time to set up. Once set up, if users are not on the corporate LAN, a solution such as VPN or VDI will still need to be implemented. Generally, it is not an option for small or virtual teams that do not have a LAN to work out of.



